Le Morne , Mauritius; 18 June 2018: Africa investor (Ai), a leading international investment and communications group, today announced the winners of the fourth annual Africa investor (Ai) Infrastructure Project Developers’ Awards 2018. These first-of-their-kind Awards, reward and showcase excellence amongst Africa’s project developers to a growing pan-African and global infrastructure investment and development finance community. They highlight and recognize the achievements of outstanding infrastructure project developers, governments, regulators, financiers, Institutional investors, advisors and development partners operating in Africa. The Ai Infrastructure Project Developer Awards took place as part of the 4th annual Ai CEO African Infrastructure Project Developers Summit. Award winners this year included: In the category of the African Social Project Developer of the Year, Lekela took it home. The Ai ICT Project Developer of the Year went to MTN and Redox Energy took the African Renewable Energy Project Developer of the Year Ai African Logistics/Transport Project Developer of the Year went to APM Terminals, whilst Ai African Energy Project Developer was awarded to THEMIS. ENGIE won the Ai Private Sector Co-Developer of the Year and Ai Public Sector Co-Developer of the Year, went to the Independent Power Producers Office (IPP) of South Africa. Ai Construction Company Co-Developer of the Year was awarded to Mota-Engil, whilst African Project Development Advisor of the Year went to Norton Rose Fulbright. PIDG was announced as the winner for Ai Project Preparation Facility of the Year and the prestigious Project Development Fund of the Year was won by Africa50. African Developer of the Year went to Endeavor Energy, whilst the African Sponsor of the Year went to the African Development Bank. Commenting on the Awards winners, Hubert Danso, CEO and Vice Chairman of Africa investor, said; “We are  pleased to host such an important platform, which shines a light on the critical achievements  made by public and private sector leaders, taking on the riskiest part of the infrastructure investment cycle, to ensure social, economic and commercial returns accrue. We congratulate all our winners and nominees and encourage other developers to take advantage of these Awards to receive the recognition they deserve.” See below for the full 2018 Awards Winners list. The Ai Infrastructure Project Developer Awards 2018 took place during the 4th Ai CEO Infrastructure Project Developers Summit at the St Regis Hotel, Le Morne Mauritius, on the 18th of June 2018. For more information on the outcomes of the event, contact Sindy Dondolo on +27 11 783 2431 or sdondolo@africainvestor.com Ai Infrastructure Project Developers’ Awards Winners 2018 1. Ai African Social Project Developer of the Year
Lekela
2. Ai African ICT Project Developer of the Year
BitHub
3. Ai African Renewable Energy Project Developer of the Year
Redox Energy
4. Ai African Logistics/Transport Project Developer of the Year
APM Terminals
5. Ai African Energy Project Developer of the Year
THEMIS
6. Ai Private Sector Co-Developer of the Year
ENGIE
7. Ai Public Sector Co-Developer of the Year
Independent Power Producers Office (IPP) South Africa
8. Ai Construction Company Co-Developer of the Year
Mota- Engil
9. Ai African Project Development Financier of the Year
USTDA
10. Ai African Project Development Advisor of the Year
Norton Rose Fulbright
11. Ai Project Preparation Facility of the Year
PIDG
12. Ai Project Development Fund of the Year
Africa50
13. Ai African Developer of the Year
Endeavor Energy
14. Ai African Sponsor of the Year
African Development Bank **ENDS  Note to Editors About Africa investor – www.africainvestor.com Africa investor is a specialist investment and communications firm advising governments, international organisations and businesses on communication strategies for capital market and foreign direct investments in Africa. Africa investor publishes Africa investor, the leading international newsstand magazine for Africa’s investment decision makers; maintains the Africa investor 40 Investors’ Index, hosts the Ai CEO Institutional Summit & Awards and the Ai CEO Infrastructure Investment Summit & Awards, among other events. About the Ai African Project Developers Forum – www.aidevelopersforum.com The Ai African Project Developers Forum is a pan-African network of over 200 infrastructure project developers and early-stage financiers that share and publish thought leadership, promote best practice, discuss co-development opportunities and are committed to improving the business environment for project developers and financiers in Africa. For more information on Africa investor, contact Sindy Dondolo on +27 11 783 2431 or sdondolo@africainvestor.com