Le Morne , Mauritius; 18 June 2018: Africa investor (Ai), a leading international investment and communications group, today announced the winners of the twelfth annual Africa investor (Ai) Infrastructure Investment Awards 2018. These first-of-their-kind Awards, reward and showcase excellence amongst Africa’s project developers to a growing pan-African and global infrastructure investment and development finance community. They highlight and recognize the achievements of outstanding infrastructure project developers, governments, regulators, financiers, Institutional investors, advisors and development partners operating in Africa. The Ai Infrastructure Investment Awards took place as part of the 4th annual Ai CEO African Infrastructure Project Developers Summit. Award winners this year included: In the category of the Infrastructure Regulator of the Year, Nigeria’s Infrastructure Concession Regulatory Commission (ICRC) took it home. The Ai Legal Advisor of the Year went to Bowmans and WSP Africa took the Ai Advisor of the Year award. Ai Bank Arranger of the Year went to Standard Bank whilst Ai PPP Champion of the Year
was awarded to African Development Bank. We were happy to announce Mobisol in partnership with Investec who accepted the award as Ai Social Infrastructure Deal of the Year and Ai Water Deal of the Year Metito, showcasing great social development work being down in East Africa. Ai Oil and Gas Deal of the Year was awarded to Shell whilst ICT/Telecoms Deal of the Year was championed by Mauritius Telecom. GE Africa was announced as the winner for Transport Deal of the Year and the prestigious Power Deal of the Year was proudly awarded Scatec Solar. Infrastructure Fund of the Year went to A.P. Moller whilst the Regional Infrastructure Investment Initiative went to Southern Africa Power Pool (SAPP) In our Pension Fund Infrastructure Investment Initiative category NSSF Uganda took the award of the Year. The Sovereign Wealth Fund Infrastructure Investment Initiative of the Year was awarded to Nigerian Sovereign Investment Authority (NSIA). Commenting on the Awards winners, Hubert Danso, CEO and Vice Chairman of Africa investor, said; “We are  pleased to host such an important platform, which shines a light on the critical achievements  made by public and private sector leaders, taking on the riskiest part of the infrastructure investment cycle, to ensure social, economic and commercial returns accrue. We congratulate all our winners and nominees and encourage other developers to take advantage of these Awards to receive the recognition they deserve.” See below for the full 2018 Awards Winners list. The Ai Infrastructure Investment Awards 2018 took place during the 4th Ai CEO Infrastructure Project Developers Summit at the St Regis Hotel, Le Morne Mauritius, on the 18th of June 2018. For more information on the outcomes of the event, contact Sindy Dondolo on +27 11 783 2431 or sdondolo@africainvestor.com Ai Infrastructure Investment Awards Winners 2018 1. Infrastructure Regulator of the Year Nigeria’s Infrastructure Concession Regulatory Commission (ICRC)
2. Ai Legal Advisor of the Year Bowmans
3. Ai Advisor of the Year WSP Africa
4. Ai Bank Arranger of the Year Standard Bank 5. Ai PPP Champion of the Year African Development Bank 6. Ai Social Infrastructure Deal of the Year Mobisol
7. Ai Water Deal of the Year Metito
8. Ai Oil and Gas Deal of the Year Shell
9. ICT/Telecoms Deal of the Year Mauritius Telecom 10. Transport Deal of the Year GE Africa
11. Power Deal of the Year Scatec Solar
12. Infrastructure Fund of the Year A.P. Moller 13. Regional Infrastructure Investment Initiative Southern Africa Power Pool (SAPP) 14. Pension Fund Infrastructure Investment Initiative of the Year National Social Security Fund, Uganda
15. Sovereign Wealth Fund Infrastructure Investment Initiative of the Year Nigerian Sovereign Investment Authority (NSIA) **ENDS Note to Editors About Africa investor – www.africainvestor.com Africa investor is a specialist investment and communications firm advising governments, international organisations and businesses on communication strategies for capital market and foreign direct investments in Africa. Africa investor publishes Africa investor, the leading international newsstand magazine for Africa’s investment decision makers; maintains the Africa investor 40 Investors’ Index, hosts the Ai CEO Institutional Summit & Awards and the Ai CEO Infrastructure Investment Summit & Awards, among other events. About the Ai African Project Developers Forum – www.aidevelopersforum.com The Ai African Project Developers Forum is a pan-African network of over 200 infrastructure project developers and early-stage financiers that share and publish thought leadership, promote best practice, discuss co-development opportunities and are committed to improving the business environment for project developers and financiers in Africa. For more information on Africa investor, contact Sindy Dondolo on +27 11 783 2431 or sdondolo@africainvestor.com