Le Morne; Johannesburg, Lagos, Nairobi, Cairo, London, New York, 18 June 2018: Africa investor (Ai), a leading international investment and communications group, today announced the winners of the 2018 Africa investor (Ai) Infrastructure Investment Awards. These first-of-their-kind Awards reward and showcase excellence amongst Africa’s infrastructure investors, to a growing pan-African and global infrastructure investment and development finance community. These highly competitive awards highlight and recognize the achievements of the top infrastructure investors, financiers, advisors and development partners operating in Africa. The Ai Infrastructure investment Awards were presented during the annual 4th annual Ai CEO African Infrastructure Project Developers Summit, which convened business and government leaders from across Africa. The Ai Summit was opened by Hubert Danso, CEO and Vice Chairman, Africa investor,  with a keynote from Paramasivum Pillay Vyapoory, Acting President of the Republic of Mauritius. Award winners this year included: In the category of the Infrastructure Regulator of the Year, Nigeria’s Infrastructure Concession Regulatory Commission (ICRC) took it home. The Ai Legal Advisor of the Year went to Bowmans and WSP Africa took the Ai Advisor of the Year award. Ai Bank Arranger of the Year went to Standard Bank whilst Ai PPP Champion of the Year was awarded to African Development Bank for the outstanding and record year of achievements in the energy sector. Mobisol in partnership with Investec won the Ai Social Infrastructure Deal of the Year and Ai Water Deal of the Year went to Metito, showcasing great social development work being down in East Africa. Ai Oil and Gas Deal of the Year was awarded to Shell, whilst ICT/Telecoms Deal of the Year was awarded to Mauritius Telecom. GE Africa was announced as the winner for Transport Deal of the Year and the prestigious Power Deal of the Year was proudly awarded Scatec Solar. Infrastructure Fund of the Year went to A.P. Moller Capital, whilst the Regional Infrastructure Investment Initiative went to Southern Africa Power Pool (SAPP). The Ai Pension Fund Infrastructure Investment Initiative of the year award went to NSSF Uganda. The Ai Sovereign Wealth Fund Infrastructure Investment Initiative of the Year was awarded to the Nigerian Sovereign Investment Authority (NSIA). Commenting on the Awards, Hubert Danso, CEO and Vice Chairman of Africa investor, said; “These awards are further evidence of the improving quality of infrastructure investments on the continent and the increasing global competitiveness of African infrastructure as an investable asset class. Ai is  delighted to be able to provide this platform to honour these winners and recognize the transformative achievements of all public and private entrants.” See below for the full 2018 Awards Winners list. The Ai Infrastructure Investment Awards 2018, took place during the Ai CEO Infrastructure Project Developers Summit at the St Regis Hotel, Le Morne Mauritius, on the 18thh of June 2018. For more information on the outcomes of the event, contact Sindy Dondolo on +27 11 783 2431 or sdondolo@africainvestor.com Ai Infrastructure Investment Awards Winners 2018 1. Infrastructure Regulator of the Year
Nigeria’s Infrastructure Concession Regulatory Commission (ICRC)
2. Ai Legal Advisor of the Year
Bowmans
3. Ai Advisor of the Year
WSP Africa
4. Ai Bank Arranger of the Year
Standard Bank
5. Ai PPP Champion of the Year
African Development Bank
6. Ai Social Infrastructure Deal of the Year
Mobisol
7. Ai Water Deal of the Year
Metito
8. Ai Oil and Gas Deal of the Year
Shell
9. ICT/Telecoms Deal of the Year
Mauritius Telecom
10. Transport Deal of the Year
GE Africa
11. Power Deal of the Year
Scatec Solar
12. Infrastructure Fund of the Year
A.P. Moller Capital
13. Regional Infrastructure Investment Initiative
Southern Africa Power Pool (SAPP)
14. Pension Fund Infrastructure Investment Initiative of the Year
National Social Security Fund (NSSF) Uganda
15. Sovereign Wealth Fund Infrastructure Investment Initiative of the Year
Nigerian Sovereign Investment Authority (NSIA)  **ENDS Note to Editors About Africa investor – www.africainvestor.com Africa investor is a specialist investment and communications firm advising governments, international organisations and businesses on communication strategies for capital market and foreign direct investments in Africa. Africa investor publishes Africa investor, the leading international newsstand magazine for Africa’s investment decision makers; maintains the Africa investor 40 Investors’ Index, hosts the Ai CEO Institutional Summit & Awards and the Ai CEO Infrastructure Investment Summit & Awards, among other events. About the Ai African Project Developers Forum – www.aidevelopersforum.com The Ai African Project Developers Forum is a pan-African network of over 200 infrastructure project developers and early-stage financiers that share and publish thought leadership, promote best practice, discuss co-development opportunities and are committed to improving the business environment for project developers and financiers in Africa. For more information on Africa investor, contact Sindy Dondolo on +27 11 783 2431 or sdondolo@africainvestor.com