The European Commission pledged a new “alliance” with Africa on Wednesday, saying it wants to pursue a free-trade deal between the two continents — but the plan drew fire for rehashing existing initiatives, a lack of consultation, and sidelining sustainable development. The Africa-Europe Alliance for Sustainable Investment and Jobs does not offer new money or funding instruments, but rather attempts to forge what one senior EU official described to Devex as “a new, co-owned economic partnership.” “We have the ongoing political framework,” the official said, referring to the joint Africa-EU strategy, reaffirmed at the African Union-European Union summit in Abidjan, Côte d’Ivoire, last year. “But you don’t have a joint economic strategy from both sides, and that is what we’re trying to do.” The alliance will support the creation of 10 million jobs in the next five years according to the EC. It envisages a greater role for the private sector via initiatives such as the European External Investment Plan; ongoing student exchanges; an improved business climate through country dialogues; and building on trade relationships, such as Economic Partnership Agreements.  The long-term goal, announced by EC President Jean-Claude Juncker at his final State of the Union speech in Strasbourg, France, on Wednesday, is to “develop the numerous trade agreements between African and EU countries into a continental free-trade agreement, an economic partnership between equal partners.” Seeing the EU-Africa relationship solely through the prism of development would be “insufficient and in fact humiliating for Africa,” Juncker added to applause from members of the European Parliament and Commission. However, the EU official said a free-trade deal between the two continents depends on first making the African Continental Free Trade Area, or AfCFTA, agreed by AU member states in March, a reality. “Of course, it’s a long, long way to get there in terms of harmonizing the standards, facilitating the customs controls etc.,” the official said. The commission’s plan includes boosting technical assistance for AfCFTA to €50 million ($58.09 million) between 2018-2020.