New York, USA; Johannesburg, South Africa; 25thSeptember 2018: Africa investor (Ai), a leading international investment group, today announced that African and international business leaders were honoured at the Africa investor (Ai) Institutional Investment and Capital Market Awards, held on the 25th of September 2018 at the NASDAQ, New York during the 12th Ai CEO Institutional Investment Summit. Commenting on the Ai Awards winners, Hubert Danso, CEO and Vice Chairman of Africa investor, said, “Africa investor is proud to use its global platform to showcase and recognize Africa’s best and most innovative capital market leaders and institutional investors at NASDAQ in New York. This year’s winners are testament to the ever-improving investment climate in Africa. We congratulate them on their success and leadership.” Most Innovative African Stock Exchange was awarded to the Ghana Stock Exchange, while EFG Hermes was recognised as Best African Investment Bank. Rand Merchant Bank won the Award for Best Africa Research Team. Financial Regulatory Authority of Egypt took the award for most Innovative Capital Markets Regulator. The Best Performing Broker in Africa went to Auerbach Grayson, while Coronation Global Fund Managers was awarded Best Africa Fund Manager of the Year. African Export-Import Bank (Afreximbank) was awarded the as Best African Listing of the year. In the Ai Index company categories, Best Performing Ai100 Company was awarded to Botswana Insurance Holdings; Best Performing Ai40 Company went to Attijariwafa Bank. Innscor Africa took the award for Most Innovative Ai SRI 50 Company and GT Bank nabbed the award for Most Innovative Ai SRI 30 Company. Catherine Lesetedi-Letegele, Group Chief Executive Officer of Botswana Insurance Holdings, was recognised as Ai100 CEO of the Year.  Mohammed el-Kettani, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Attijariwafa Bank took Ai40 CEO of the Year Award and Ai SRI 50 CEO of the Year went to Julian Schonken, CEO of Innscor Africa. Ai SRI 30 CEO of the Year was awarded to Segun Agbaje, Managing Director of GT Bank. In the Pensions and Sovereign Wealth Funds categories, International Sovereign Wealth Fund Initiative of the Year was awarded to Government of Singapore Investment Corporation (GIC). Senegal’s Strategic Investment Fund (FONSIS) was recognised as African Sovereign Wealth Fund Initiative of the Year. International Pension Fund Initiative of the Year went to Chicago Teachers Pension Fund and the Award for African Pension Fund Initiative of the Year was taken by Kenya Power Pension Fund. Lastly, our prestigious Global Institutional Investment Personality of the Year was awarded to Ms. Arunma Oteh, Treasurer and Vice President of the World Bank Group. Ai Institutional Investment and Capital Market Awards Winners 2018 Ghana Stock Exchange EFG Hermes Rand Merchant Bank Financial Regulatory Authority of Egypt Auerbach Grayson Coronation Global Fund Managers African Export-Import Bank (Afreximbank) Botswana Insurance Holdings Limited Attijariwafa Bank Innscor Africa GTBank Catherine Lesetedi-Letegele, Group Chief Executive Officer of Botswana Insurance Holdings Mohammed el-Kettani, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Attijariwafa Bank Julian Schonken, CEO, Innscor Africa Segun Agbaje, Managing Director, GTBank Government of Singapore Investment Corporation (GIC) Senegal Strategic Investment Fund (FONSIS) Chicago Teachers Pension Fund Kenya Power Pension Fund Ms. Arunma Oteh, Treasurer and Vice President of the World Bank Group  ENDS** Note to Editors For more information on the Ai Institutional Investment and Capital Market Awards, contact Tatenda Mutasa on +27 11 783 2431 or tmutasa@africainvestor.com About Africa investor – www.africainvestor.com Africa investor is a specialist investment firm advising governments, international organisations and businesses on strategies for capital market and foreign direct investments in Africa. Africa investor publishes Africa investor, the leading international newsstand magazine for Africa’s investment decision makers; maintains the Africa investor 40 Investors’ Index, hosts the Ai Index Series Summit & Awards and the Africa investor Infrastructure Projects Summit & Awards, among other events.  