Johannesburg, London, New York, Nairobi, Lagos, Port Louis; 20th April 2018: Africa investor (Ai), a leading international investment and communications group, today announced the highly-anticipated release of the shortlisted candidates for the 2018 Ai Infrastructure Investment Awards. The Awards will be presented during the Ai CEO Infrastructure Project Developers Summit on the 18th of June 2018 at the St Regis Hotel, in Le Morne Mauritius. The Ai Infrastructure Investment Awards are a unique platform for infrastructure investors, financiers, operators and governments, in Africa’s fast-growing infrastructure sector to gauge and compare their performance, achievements and investment success stories. The 2018 Ai Awards will showcase African public and private sector, project investment innovations and the growing international competitiveness of African infrastructure as an investible asset class. Commenting on the awards shortlist Hubert Danso, Ai, CEO and Vice Chairman said, “Africa investor is delighted to note that Ai is successfully attracting and seeing many new entrants participating in Africa’s infrastructure investment opportunities. We wish all the nominees best with their entries.” The prestigious, highly sought-after Ai Infrastructure Investment Awards, formally recognise achievements across the main infrastructure sectors in Africa. The Awards reward the institutions and personalities driving transactions and improving the continent’s infrastructure investment climate.
See below for the full shortlist. Infrastructure Regulator of the Year Legal Advisor of the Year Advisor of the Year Bank Arranger of the Year PPP Champion of the Year Social Infrastructure Deal of the Year Water Deal of the Year Oil & Gas Deal of the Year ICT/Telecoms Deal of the Year Transport Deal of the Year  Power Deal of the Year Infrastructure Fund of the Year Regional Infrastructure Investment Initiative of the Year Pension Fund Infrastructure Investment Initiative of the Year Sovereign Wealth Fund Infrastructure Investment Initiative of the Year The Ai Infrastructure Investment Awards will take place during the annual Ai CEO Infrastructure Project Developers Summit & Awards, which is the calendar event and premier business development forum for pension funds, trustees, investment consultants, sovereign wealth funds and institutional investors. The Ai CEO Infrastructure Project Developers Summit & Awards will take place on 18th of June 2018 at the St Regis Hotel, Le Mourne in Mauritius. For more information on the Ai CEO Infrastructure Project Developers Summit and Awards 2018, visit http://aidevelopersummit.com/ or contact Sindy Dondolo on +27 11 783 2431 or sdondolo@africainvestor.com **ENDS Note to Editors About Africa investor – www.africainvestor.com Africa investor is a specialist investment and communications firm advising governments, international organisations and businesses on communication strategies for capital market and foreign direct investments in Africa. Africa investor publishes Africa investor, the leading international newsstand magazine for Africa’s investment decision makers; maintains the Africa investor 40 Investors’ Index, hosts the Ai CEO Institutional Summit & Awards and the Ai CEO Infrastructure Investment Summit & Awards, among other events. About the Ai African Project Developers Forum – www.aidevelopersforum.com The Ai African Project Developers Forum is a pan-African network of over 200 infrastructure project developers and early-stage financiers that share and publish thought leadership, promote best practice, discuss co-development opportunities and are committed to improving the business environment for project developers and financiers in Africa. For more information on Africa investor, contact Sindy Dondolo on +27 11 783 2431 or sdondolo@africainvestor.com