Johannesburg, London, New York, Nairobi, Lagos, Port Louis; 20th April 2018: Africa investor (Ai), a leading international investment and communications group, today announced the highly-anticipated release of the shortlisted candidates for the 2018 Ai African Infrastructure Projects Developer Awards. The Ai Infrastructure Project Developers Awards will be presented during the Ai CEO Infrastructure Project Developers Summit, on the 18th of June, 2018 at the St Regis Hotel, Le Morne Mauritius. The Ai African Infrastructure Projects Developer Awards are designed to recognise and reward excellence amongst Africa’s project developer community, to a pan-African and global infrastructure investment audience. Commenting on the release of the shortlist, Hubert Danso, CEO and Vice Chairman of Africa investor, said, “Africa investor is delighted to provide the Ai African Infrastructure Projects Developer Awards platform to assist in raising Africa’s infrastructure investment profile worldwide. The Awards highlight the important role developers and financiers play in providing the essential infrastructure required to increase the continents intra-African and global trade and investment pipeline. We applaud our candidates and wish them the best with their entries.” The prestigious, Ai Awards, formally recognise all achievements across the main infrastructure sectors in Africa. The Awards reward the institutions and personalities driving transactions and improving the continent’s infrastructure development profile. See below for the full shortlist African Social Project Developer of the Year African ICT Project Developer of the Year African Renewable Energy Project Development of the Year African Logistics/Transport Project Developer of the Year African Energy Project Developer of the Year Private Sector Co-developer of the Year Public Sector Co-developer of the Year Construction Company Co-developer of the Year African Project Development Financier of the Year African Project Development Advisor of the Year Project Preparation Facility of the Year Project Development Fund of the Year African Developer of the Year African Sponsor of the Year The 2018 Ai Infrastructure Project Developers Awards will take place during the annual Ai CEO Infrastructure Project Developers Summit, held in association with Africa50, which gathers Africa’s top project developers from the Ai African Project Developers Forum. The Summit and Awards 2018 will take place on 18 June 2018 at the St Regis Hotel, Le Morne, Mauritius on the eve of the Africa Energy Forum. For more information on the Ai CEO Infrastructure Project Developers Summit and Awards 2018, visit http://aidevelopersummit.com/ or contact Sindy Dondolo on +27 11 783 2431 or sdondolo@africainvestor.com **ENDS Note to Editors About Africa investor – www.africainvestor.com Africa investor is a specialist investment and communications firm advising governments, international organisations and businesses on communication strategies for capital market and foreign direct investments in Africa. Africa investor publishes Africa investor, the leading international newsstand magazine for Africa’s investment decision makers; maintains the Africa investor 40 Investors’ Index, hosts the Ai CEO Institutional Summit & Awards and the Ai CEO Infrastructure Investment Summit & Awards, among other events. About the Ai African Project Developers Forum – www.aidevelopersforum.com The Ai African Project Developers Forum is a pan-African network of over 200 infrastructure project developers and early-stage financiers that share and publish thought leadership, promote best practice, discuss co-development opportunities and are committed to improving the business environment for project developers and financiers in Africa. For more information on Africa investor, contact Sindy Dondolo on +27 11 783 2431 or sdondolo@africainvestor.com