On Monday, the Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN) inaugurated a 100MVA transformer at Alimosho substation, Lagos. The objective of the installation is to boost electricity supply to residents within Ikeja Disco, The Nation Online reported. According to Usman Mohammed, the managing director of TCN, the upgrading of 1X30MVA with 1x100MVA transformer at Alimosho 132/33KV transmission substation had increased the station’s output capacity from 160MVA to 230MVA. “With this development, TCN has not only established adequate transformer capacity to serve these parts of Lagos but has also provided the necessary redundancy in line with the requirements of N-1 reliability criterion at Alimosho transmission substations at present. “In addition, two projects under the transmission rehabilitation and expansion programme will intervene in Lagos and environs,” Mohammed explained. He added: “The Nigeria Electricity Transmission Access Project (NETAP) will significantly upgrade the following substations; Ijora, Lekki, Alagbon, Alausa, Maryland, Otta, Egbin, Omowu odofun, Itire and Akoka. “Similarly, the preparation for the Lagos Ogun Transmission Project financed by JICA has reached advanced stage. The project will build transmission lines and substations in Likosi, Arigbajo, Badagry, New Agbara, Mountain of Fire and Redeem among others.” In February this year, Nigeria’s H.E. Babatunde Fashola, SAN, Minister for Power, Works and Housing, said: “The Federal Government is committed to addressing the challenges in the public-owned transmission network and the financing being provided by the World Bank under the Nigeria Electricity Transmission Project power sector underlines this commitment. “The Federal Government anticipates that private sector financing in the privately-owned segments of the value-chain will complement the government’s efforts in bringing better quality service to citizens.” The World Bank approved an International Development Association (IDA) Credit and an IDA Scale Up Facility Credit in the total amount of $486 million equivalent for rehabilitation and upgrading of electricity transmission substations and lines in Nigeria. In a statement in February, the Bank said that the investments under the Nigeria Electricity Transmission Project will increase the power transfer capacity of the transmission network and enable distribution companies supply consumers with additional power. The Nation Online cited the managing director who said that the Nigeria Electricity Transmission Project would help to address key bottlenecks in the transmission network and improve access to affordable and reliable electricity service to Nigerians.