Casablanca, Johannesburg, Port Louis – 18 April 2018: Africa investor (Ai), the international investment and communications group, and Africa50, the pan-African infrastructure platform, created by the African Development Bank, will co-host the 4th Ai CEO Infrastructure Project Developers Summit on June 18 in Mauritius. This Summit will bring together CEO’s of leading project development companies, energy developers and investors, infrastructure financiers, and institutional investors. They will advance partnerships and discuss this year’s theme of Putting Financial Close First, sharing strategies for catalysing private capital for greenfield and early stage projects. Commenting on the Summit, Hubert Danso, CEO and Vice Chairman of Africa investor said, “At last year’s CEO Developers Summit, both Presidents Macky Sall of Senegal and Ameenah Gurib-Fakim of Mauritius stressed the urgent need to attract private and institutional capital for early stage project funding and commended the Ai Developers Summit for playing a critical role in fostering deeper public-private cooperation on project development. We are therefore pleased to partner again with Africa50, the continent’s leading infrastructure investment platform.” “There is substantial regional and global interest in African infrastructure today,” added Alain Ebobissé, CEO of Africa50. “However, one of the biggest challenges we see is that too few projects are ready to receive commercial financing. We want to encourage a greater focus on project development and the enabling environment for bankable projects, allowing modern infrastructure to be built more rapidly.” Register now to request an invitation to be part of this exclusive business development opportunity, follow the link for event information: www.aidevelopersummit.com About Africa investor (Ai) – www.africainvestor.com Africa investor is a specialist investment and communications firm advising governments, international organizations and businesses on infrastructure investments and strategies for capital market and foreign direct investments in Africa. Africa investor publishes Africa investor, the leading international news stand magazine for Africa’s investment decision makers; maintains the Africa investor 40 Investors’ Index, runs an awards franchise of annual Ai CEO Institutional Investor Summits and events and hosts the Ai African Infrastructure Project Developers Forum. About the Ai African Project Developers Forum – www.aidevelopersforum.com Launched at the Ai Infrastructure Project Developers Summit, the Ai African Project Developers Forum is a pan-African network of over 200 infrastructure project developers and early-stage financiers that share and publish thought leadership, promote best practice, discuss co-development opportunities and are committed to improving the business environment for project developers and financiers in Africa. About Africa50 – www.africa50.com Africa50 is an infrastructure investment platform that contributes to Africa’s growth by developing and investing in bankable projects, catalyzing public sector capital, and mobilizing private sector funding, with differentiated financial returns and impact. Contacts: Africa Investor, Renee Montez, COO: +27 11 783 2431; rmontez@africainvestor.com Africa50, Oliver Griffith, Communications Advisor: +33 6 24 10 29 24; o.griffith@Africa50.com