LONDON, June 21, 2018 /PRNewswire/ — Zimbabwe, Egypt and Ghana demonstrate the most positive changes for business, followed closely by Nigeria and Mozambique Zimbabwe, Egypt and Ghana are the leaders when comparing their September 2017 risk-reward score with the score from June 2018, according to the Africa Risk-Reward Index from Control Risks and Oxford Economics. Followed closely by Nigeria and Mozambique, these countries show the largest improvement in their reward score, while at the same time reducing their risk scores for investing in these countries. Jean Devlin, Partner and Head of African analysis at Control Risks, comments: “2017 was a challenging year for many African economies. But significant political changes, particularly in Southern Africa, and improved commodity prices have turned the tide for many markets. Africa’s largest markets – Nigeria, South Africa and Egypt – have all improved their Risk-Reward Scores, but we also find many smaller economies among the stars. Zimbabwe, Mozambique, Zambia and Senegal can be found among the top ten countries that improved their reward scores and reduced their risk scores. These developments clearly attract investors who are looking to expand their footprint on the continent.” Key findings of the report: “Although several key elections in 2018 and 2019 – among them in Nigeria and South Africa – need to be closely monitored with regards to their impact on business, positive developments in many African countries will further strengthen efforts to diversify economies and increase their overall resilience against internal and external shocks,” concludes Devlin. About Control Risks
Control Risks is a specialist global risk consultancy that helps create secure, compliant and resilient organisations. We believe that taking risks is essential to success, so we provide the insight and intelligence you need to realise opportunities and grow. And we ensure you are prepared to resolve issues and crises. From the boardroom to the remotest location, we have developed an unparalleled ability to bring order to chaos and reassurance to anxiety. About Oxford Economics  
Oxford Economics is a world leader in global forecasting and quantitative data analysis, acting as a key adviser to corporate, financial and government decision-makers, and thought leaders. Our worldwide client base comprises international organisations, including leading multinational companies and financial institutions; key government bodies and trade associations; and top universities, consultancies and think tanks. Oxford Economics has a global team of over 200 professional economists and econometricians situated in 20 offices around the world that help clients quantify global impacts and analyse shifts in the macroeconomic environment to assess the effect on their business and organisations. Control Risks and Oxford Economics  
Control Risks and Oxford Economics have joined forces to provide an innovative political and economic risk forecasting service that takes a holistic view of risk in a complex, rapidly changing, globalised world. Control Risks and Oxford Economics combine extensive geopolitical, operational and security expertise with rigorous economic forecasts and models on 200 countries and 100 industries. Together, we offer full-spectrum consulting that enables your organisation to navigate the world of political and economic risk. Covering all aspects of the investment journey, including security and integrity risk, our joint consultancy practice can overlay geopolitical and economic scenarios to bring new insights and direction.