Wärtsilä is set to engineer, manufacture and deliver a 130MW Flexicycle power plant, which will form an integral part of Senegal’s energy future. The Flexicycle solution is based on a gas, multi-fuel, or liquid fuel power plant combined with a steam turbine. The power solutions provider claims that its Flexicycle power plants can operate both in highly efficient combined cycle mode and in dynamic and fast simple cycle mode. The Malicounda power project in Mbour is located 85 km from the country’s capital Dakar, is part of Senegal’s strategy to increase its energy production, while in the medium term, reducing the cost of electricity for consumers. Importantly, the Wärtsilä thermal plant solution will provide the flexibility needed to facilitate the integration of intermittent renewable energy into the country’s network. In addition, the West African country is creating its energy future blueprint and is exploring other essential technologies including energy storage. The project was initiated in September 2017 with the signing of a development agreement between infrastructure development fund for Africa, Africa 50, and Senegal’s state power utility, Senelec. The plant will operate on seven Wärtsilä 50 engines operating initially on heavy fuel oil (HFO). However, there is an option to convert to gas fuelled operation as soon as gas becomes available. Senegal and Mauritania have signed an inter-governmental cooperation agreement to develop substantial gas resources to be shared by the two countries. “We are proud to have been selected as the equipment provider for this important project,” said Arnaud Gouet, regional director, Africa West, Wärtsilä Energy Solutions. The CEO of Matelec Group, Sami Soughayar, added:  “This is a major energy project that is very important for Senegal. We needed a reliable and qualified partner to engineer and provide the flexible and reliable energy system, now and as our energy infrastructure evolves. With its global and Pan-African experience, Wärtsilä fully meets the project requirements.” The plant is expected to become operational in 2020. The solutions provider states to have already installed 450MW of capacity in Senegal.