Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Stanbic IBTC Pension Managers Ltd. (SIPML) Mr Eric Fajemisin, said the firm invested 12.5 percent of its Assets Under Management (AUM) worth N2.53 trillion, representing N350 billion, into the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE). Speaking at a media parley in Lagos, Mr Fajemisin disclosed that the investment in equities comprised Mutual funds, Exchange Traded Funds and private equity funds, among others. He also said that from 2004 to 2017, the firm paid a total of N66.5 billion to 37,700 retirees. The payment, according to him, was made monthly and quarterly as required by retirees without hitch in the last 14 years. He also stated that the company’s AUM was in excess of N2.53 trillion with over 1.6 million retirement savings account across the country. However, he emphasised that, “There is still more land to conquer in the industry and great improvement is also required.” Mr Fajemisin said SIMPL was now Nigeria’s largest Pension Fund Administrator (PFA) in terms of clients. On the micro pension scheme, he said if properly harnessed, it has a great potential, saying it has the capability of landing the industry into the next phase of growth and development. According to Mr Fajemisin, the scheme had the capacity to deepen the country, considering the fact that 70 percent of Nigerian working population operate in the informal sector. He highlighted other benefits of the scheme to include improved standard of living for the elderly, safety of funds, access to mortgage facilities and health insurance, among others. On the part of SIPML Executive Director (Investments), Mr Oladele Sotubo, the multi fund structure to kick off on July 1, would compel PFAs to invest not below the required threshold. According to him, the multi fund structure is divided into four different funds tagged Fund one, Fund two, Fund three and Fund four, saying age was determinant factor in PFAs investment exposure in the proposed multi fund structure. Mr Sotubo said Fund one was the most aggressive fund for below 49 years, pointing out that PENCOM rule stipulated that PFA equities exposure in Fund one should be a minimum of 20 percent and maximum of 75 percent. He explained that the Fund two is for 49 years and above with a minimum equity investment of 10 percent and a maximum of 55 percent, while under Fund three, 50 years and above were allowed to invest a minimum of 5 percent in equities and maximum of 20 percent. He said that PFAs equity exposure under Fund four would be zero to 10 percent to minimise risk.